# Malaria_cell_detection
Malaria dataset contains 27,558 cell images classified into two groups called parasitized and uninfected cells, where each cell contains an equal number of instances. Data was taken from 150 P. falciparum and 50 healthy patients and it was photographed at Chittagong Medical College Hospital, Bangladesh using a smartphone by placing it on the conventional light microscope [26]. Manual annotation was performed later by an expert slide reader at the Mahidol-Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit. In this data, parasitized samples mean that there is the presence of Plasmodium, whereas the uninfected samples refer to the absence of Plasmodium but there may be presence of other objects like staining artefacts/impurities.

While studying the dataset, some of the labelled data raised suspicion of whether they were correctly labelled. Some of the data seems like uninfected but labelled as parasitized, where some parasitized images are labelled as uninfected. To confirm this rising issue we consulted with an expert. The expert confirmed that some of the data are genuinely mislabeled which was later manually annotated as per the presence and absence of malarial parasites. While annotating, suspicious, and falsely labelled data was put aside, which resulted in the reduction of data from 27,558 to 26,161. After removing 647 falsely labeled and suspicious parasitized data, the amount of current parasitized data stands 13,132. In this article, correct parasitized data is considered as true parasitized, and suspicious data is considered as false parasitized. For uninfected malaria data, 750 suspicious images was found, which was named as false uninfected. After keeping away those data, total true uninfected data stands 13,029. Some data from the dataset are depicted in Figure 1.
